The pinned PDB metadata snapshot and train/validation/test split behind the preprint
"Fold Leakage in Inverse-Folding Benchmarks, and the Limit on Fixing It: Auditing the
ProteinMPNN and LigandMPNN Splits".

Everything here is metadata only: sequences, sequence-cluster memberships, fold and
domain-family assignments, and ligand signals. No structure coordinates. That is the
point of the method, since the split is computed without downloading a single mmCIF
file, which makes it megabytes of JSON rather than a terabyte of structures.

Code: https://github.com/WSobo/IF-Split (MIT license, tag v0.6.1)


CONTENTS

candidates-annotated.jsonl (471 MB) - the pinned snapshot. 225,653 PDB entries, one
JSON record each, including Pfam and InterPro domain families.

dataset.lock (3.2 MB) - pins the candidate set by sha256, the full configuration, and
the hash of the split output.

manifest.json (5.4 KB) - the reported statistics for this split.

train.json, val.json, test.json (1.7 MB total) - the split itself, as lists of PDB
entry ids.

test/metal_test.json, test/nucleic_acid_test.json, test/small_molecule_test.json - the
ligand-class-stratified test sets.

config.yaml (890 B) - the exact configuration that produced this split. Its
config_hash is f7d4203586df3dc7b10d2948e76d20d8, which dataset.lock also records.

SHA256SUMS - checksums for everything above.


REPRODUCING THE SPLIT

  pip install if-split==0.6.1
  if-split resplit --candidates candidates-annotated.jsonl --config config.yaml --out ./out
  if-split verify dataset.lock --candidates candidates-annotated.jsonl

The last command re-derives the split offline, with no network access, and checks it
against the lock. It should print:

  OK: reproduced exactly (225653 entries; candidates + split verified).

It exits non-zero and prints "DRIFT detected" if either the snapshot or the derived
split differs, so it is safe to use as a continuous-integration gate.


THE SPLIT

Merging on all five authorities (CATH, ECOD, SCOP2, Pfam, InterPro) with the
data-derived "maximal" strategy:

  train: 213,890 entries, in 1 leakage-safe component
  validation: 1,467 entries, in 813 components
  test: 1,465 entries, in 864 components

Training is a single component. That is not a configuration choice, it is the finding.
Merging entities that share a family collapses the PDB into one component holding 98.6%
of entries, so at most 1.35% can be held out at the fold level, and this split takes
essentially all of it.

Of the 2,932 held-out entries, 888 are certified novel: they carry a family under at
least one of the five authorities and share none of them with training. The remaining
2,044 carry no annotation under any authority. They are fold-disjoint but unverifiable,
and are reported separately rather than counted as novel.


CAVEATS WORTH READING FIRST

Only the annotated snapshot is included, deliberately. An unannotated candidates file
carries no Pfam or InterPro families, cannot reproduce any of the result above, and
fails verification against this lock.

The analysis is snapshot-dependent in a known direction. CATH, ECOD and SCOP2 are
curated retrospectively from solved structures, so their coverage grows over time. As
they annotate the recent PDB, more chains acquire merge edges and the fold-disjoint
residual shrinks. The 1.35% here is an upper bound on what a later snapshot will yield.

Domain-family disjointness is not fold disjointness. Sharing an InterPro family is a
claim about a domain rather than about a fold. The holdout is disjoint under the
criteria named above; residual leakage below those criteria is bounded and disclosed,
not zero.


CITATION

Cite the preprint for the analysis and this DOI for the snapshot. The lock embeds the
full configuration, so anyone holding only dataset.lock can recover the exact settings
without this description.
